MS Dynamics 365 template (#403)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/microsoft/microsoft-dynamics-365-connector.adoc

= Microsoft Dynamics 365 Connector - Get Started - Mule 4
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images/

Support Category: Select

Microsoft Dynamics 365 Connector v2.3.1

Anypoint Connector for Microsoft Dynamics 365 enables integration with the Microsoft Dynamics 365 Cloud API.

This connector enables you to perform operations to:

> 

Reviewer: REMOVE periods at the ends of each of the following fragments.

* Authorize or unauthorize server access.
* Create, update, and delete entities.
* Retrieve a single entity or query multiple entities.
* Associate and disassociate entities.
* Execute actions.

== About Connectors

> Anypoint connectors are Mule runtime engine extensions that enable you to connect 

Reviewer: PLEASE change this in the template:
```suggestion
Anypoint Connectors are Mule runtime engine extensions that enable you to connect 
```

to APIs and resources on external systems, such as Salesforce, Microsoft Dynamics 365, ServiceNow,
and Twitter.

== Audience

> * Starting user -- To create your Mule app,

Reviewer: PLEASE change this in the template, as I have marked it many times:
```suggestion
* Starting user
To create your Mule app,
```

see xref:microsoft/microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-design-center.adoc[Design Center Configuration]
or xref:microsoft/microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-studio.adoc[Studio Configuration]. The
xref:microsoft/microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-examples.adoc[Examples] topic provides one or more use cases for using the connector.

> * Power user - Read the xref:microsoft/microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-xml-maven.adoc[XML and Maven Support] and xref:microsoft/microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-examples.adoc[Examples] topics.

Reviewer: DITTO

== Prerequisites

Before creating an app, you must have access to the Microsoft Dynamics 365 target resource and 

> Anypoint Platform. You also need understand how to create a Mule app using 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Platform. You also must understand how to create a Mule app using 
```

Design Center or Anypoint Studio.

> Obtain a client ID and secret for your app by logging into the Microsoft Azure Active Directory portal at portal.azure.com.

Reviewer: Fix template:
```suggestion
Obtain a client ID and secret for your app by logging in to the Microsoft Azure Active Directory portal at portal.azure.com.
```

Before starting:

> * You need access to a Microsoft Dynamics 365 instance leveraged by Azure Active Directory; that is, Azure Active Directory is the Identity Provider that provides access to an application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You need access to a Microsoft Dynamics 365 instance for which Azure Active Directory is the Identity Provider that provides access to an application.
```
GLOBALLY avoid restatements ("; that is,...").

== OAuth Types

Microsoft Dynamics 365 Connector supports:

* OAuth by connection to servers that handle authorization and token access
* OAuth Username and Password  

== Input Sources (Triggers)

Anypoint Connector for Microsoft Dynamics 365 enables you to start an app using these input sources:

> * On New Object - Start your app when an object is created.

Reviewer: DITTO list item format

* On Modified Object - Start your app when an object is modified.

Alternatively, you can use HTTP to listen for inputs or use a scheduler to choose when to run your app. 

=== Trigger Required Fields

On New Object and On Modified Object have the same required field names.

* Entity Type
+
Business data as defined by a Microsoft Dynamics 365 instance.
Examples are `account` and `contact`.
+
* Connection
+
OAuth connection types. Can be `Connection` to connect via URLs to servers that handle authorization and token access, or `OAuth Username Password` to connect by specifying a user name and password.

> ==== Connection Required Fields

Reviewer: We REALLY want to avoid nesting topics below three levels. Can you writer around this?

> * Resource - Resource URL for accessing the Microsoft Dynamics 365 instance

Reviewer: Fix this and the following list item formats, per earlier edits.

* Consumer Key - OAuth consumer key registered with the service provider
* Consumer Secret - OAuth consumer secret registered with the service provider

> * Listener Config - A reference to an to use to create the listener to catch the access token callback endpoint 

Reviewer: Missing text: "A reference to an <what> to use..."

* Callback Path - The path of the access token callback endpoint
* Authorize Path - The path of the local HTTP endpoint that triggers the OAuth dance

==== OAuth Username Password Required Fields

> * Username - User name used to initialize the session

Reviewer: DITTO formatting list items. Also:
```suggestion
* Username
Username used to initialize the session
```

> * Password - Password used to authenticate against the proxy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Password
Password used to authenticate against the proxy
```

> * Resource - The Application ID URI of the web API's secured resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Resource
Application ID URI of the web API's secured resource
```

> * Client ID - The Application ID assigned to your app when you registered it with Azure AD. You can find this in the Azure Portal. Click Active Directory, click the directory, choose the application, and click Configure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Client ID
Application ID assigned to your app when you registered it with Azure AD. You can find this in the Azure Portal. 
```

> * Client Secret - The app secret that you created in the app registration portal for your app. It should not be used in a native app, because client secrets cannot be reliably stored on devices. It is required for web apps and web APIs, which have the ability to store the client secret securely on the server side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Client Secret
App secret that you created in the app registration portal for your app. It should not be used in a native app, because client secrets cannot be reliably stored on devices. It is required for web apps and web APIs, which have the ability to store the client secret securely on the server side.
```

> * Token Request Endpoint - URL of the OAuth token request server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Token Request Endpoint
URL of the OAuth token request server
```

== Connector Terminology

> 

Reviewer: Oh dear...really? It is better to define each term as it is used in actual narrative. Very few people want to read a glossary.
If you keep this, format it using a definition list. See the style ref.
NOT EDITED

* Complex types - Keyless named structured types consisting of a set of properties. Complex types are commonly used as property values in model entities, or as parameters or return values for operations.
* Entities - Instances of entity types, for example, an account or an opportunity.
* Entity sets - Named collections of entities, for example, an account is an entity set containing account entities. An entity's key uniquely identifies the entity within an entity set.
* Entity types - Named structured types with a key. Entity types define the named properties and relationships of an entity, and may derive by single inheritance from other entity types.
* Enumeration types or enum types - Named primitive types whose values are named constants with underlying integer values.
* Functions - Operations that do not have side effects and may support further composition, for example, with additional filter operations, functions, or an action.

== Common Use Cases For the Connector

The following use cases are described in the xref:microsoft/microsoft-dynamics-365-connector-examples.adoc[Examples] topic.

> 

Reviewer: REMOVE periods from the ends of each listed item below
